when you shouldn't do
SEO hey I'm Sam Dunning coowner over at
web choice.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly email where I share actionable
website marketing tips useful podcasts
free resources goodies and more to kick
off your week with a bang why not give
it a trial over at businessgrowth doil
so you'll often hear myself and many
other marketers out there Haring on
about the benefits advantages and why
SEO search Eng optimization getting your
website to that all important page one
top spot in Google's organic search
results is great but today I want to
share five scenarios in which SEO might
not be the best fit for your business
let's dive
in so the first situation of when a
company might not be in the best place
to invest in SEO is is if they're in a
new category so if they're in a new
sector a new industry that's not yet
matured and the reason being is that
Google works best when it's capturing
buyers demand so for example if your
Market your target audience is aware of
the service or the product that you
provide and then they're searching for
not necessarily your brand but they're
searching for the relevant type of
product service requirement offering on
Google and then on the basis that your
website ranks well you've done SEO if
it's page one if it's one of the top
results they're going to click through
onto your website and then convert
whatever you class of conversion as
however if you're in a new category
that's not yet established and people
aren't aware that it's an actual thing
then SEO is probably not going to be the
best bet as an example someone recently
approached us they were offering an
accessibility product in fact he was
already investing in Google ads was
saying look Sam I'm not really getting
results um I think we're CA out on the
spend it's not really driving any
conversions once we learned more about
the product we realized that it was
actually a pretty unique offering the
the buyer demand just wasn't there
because people didn't know it was a
thing so there's no point in SEO because
people aren't actually searching for for
the offering for what he did so even if
he did rank well there just wouldn't be
any demand to capture on Google search
so instead what I recommend is actually
talking to Ideal clients whether you've
got existing customers or you've got
ideal Target prospects and understand
where they get their trust information
from so whether that is things like
event shows whether that's industry
Publications whether that is press
releases news articles certain social
media channels you're much better
investing your money working out where
your idol clients go to each day to get
their information where they hang out on
those channels and investing in those to
raise awareness if you really want to do
SEO what you could do is top of funnel
searches so things like how to do X best
ways to do y what to consider before
doing Zed so more awareness-based
searches again link to your website so
when people are searching for some of
the problems that you solve or have
questions around what you do you can
create articles information pages on
your website to rank for those that
might drive inquiries lead sales long
term the second situation where SEO
might not be the best fit for your
company is if you need results super
fast so there are times where SEO can
work really quickly if you're in a very
Niche category and there's not many
competitors just doing great on-site SEO
having a really informative website with
information pages on your main Services
offerings having useful resources having
Pages for those main features locations
demographics you serve and just making
your website the go-to educational place
for your sector and focused on
conversion doing solid on page and
Technical SEO and building some links
might get you the rankings if there's
not many competitors in your sector or
if you operate in a very small
geographic location or a very small area
and again quite a niched category then
you could rank pretty quickly with SEO
but if you're in an industry where
there's a lot of competitors it's quite
a flooded Market typically you're going
to be looking at months if not longer to
rank especially in high demand searches
and keywords so you're going to be
talking perhaps six months or longer so
instead you might want to consider
things like paid ads whether that's
Google AdWords paid search whether is
social type ads like LinkedIn ads
whether that's going on review site ites
like G2 capter trust radar whatever is
relevant for your industry and capturing
demand that way with those fast ads to
your website to drive leads or you might
want to consider an outbound sales
motion like hiring an outbound team to
cool up your idle clients generate
appointments quite fast if you are under
pressure which a lot of fast growing
companies funded companies tech
companies are from investors then you
might need to go down those channels
first before you consider SEO because if
you're in a competitive space answers
are SEO is going to take longer to see
results although over time SEO can
reduce your paid ad spend so you've got
to look at it from both sides depending
on how quickly you need those organic
results the next situation is if you're
not willing to work on your website so
perhaps you think your website is a
Picasso it's an absolute work of and
you're totally against making updates to
it then SEO might not be for you there's
two big big main elements to search Eng
optimization once you've established the
target keywords the target Search terms
you want your prospective buyers to find
you on page one of Google and you want
to capture that demand you want to
capture their traffic their searches you
want to generate leads and sales for
then you've got onpage SEO and off-page
SEO on page SEO typically involves work
to your website so that might be things
like adding new learning Pages that're
super relevant for the Search terms
you're targeting with helpful
information problems you fix benefits
maybe some testimonials maybe some
unique research maybe some interviews
and all these good useful insights
you've also got the technical SEO side
of things so making sure your website is
clearly set up in terms of page titles
heading tags metadata image alt tags
site maps all that good technical stuff
as well as making sure your website
loads super fast work smooth your mobile
tablets PC and also making sure you've
got relevant pages for all the main
services and offerings you have so if
you're totally against updating your
website SEO is probably not going to be
the best fit for you as it's really
going to hamstring your ability to rank
as well as you potentially could on the
search
engines the fourth situation where SEO
might not be the best fit for you is if
you're looking to take on absolute
Giants in your industry so for example
if you provide CRM software and you want
to rank for a keyword massively
competitive like CR M you're not even
going to make a dent you're not going to
have a drop in the ocean unless just
like Salesforce and HubSpot that rank
page one for TS like CRM unless you've
got millions in the bank unless you've
got a massive in-house team and a huge
marketing budget plus a ton of time on
your hands to actually make the results
happen with SEO there's just no point
it's going to be a a thankless a
pointless Journey so instead you want to
Niche down you want to focus on what's
called longer tale Search terms that
more specific specific and more relevant
to what you do so if your CRM is focused
on the financial industry you might want
to look at terms like CRM for financial
companies best Finance CRM or financial
CRM provider those kind of more relevant
more Niche more specific longtail
keywords are going to be a lot more
beneficial they're also going to drive
more targeted more relevant traffic to
your site meaning the prospects the
visitors are more likely to convert so
going Nicha going more relevant is going
to be worth well if you're in a
competitive
industry and lastly at number five we've
got you don't need growth all right that
one's a bit of a joke so with SEO with
search engine optimization if it's done
right longterm you can build up your
brand reputation as if prospects are
constantly seeing you page one in
Google's organic search results they're
going to think you're a reliable trusted
brand you're going to ramp up your
organic traffic to your website you're
going to improve your leads your Revenue
your conversions on the basis that
you've got a solid website that can
convert and also over time you might be
able to lower other channel spend so you
might be able to lower paid ads spend
across different channels because
organic results seos driving more
inquiries and more revenue and there we
go that's not put you off SEO for your
business we've got tons of episodes with
actual tips how you can utilize onpage
seo off-page seo how you can build links
free advice over on the site at
businessgrowth marketing or
businessgrowth show B2B marketing
podcast or you can check out more
episodes on the YouTube hope you found
this of use as always if you enjoyed
today's episode click subscribe on
YouTube is much appreciated or rating on
the audio podcast Channel goes a long
way and with that I should catch you on
the next one cheers